in this video let us learn how to implement the find
operation
As we discussed earlier the find operation will return the
parent of a particular element
In other words it is used to find out which
set a particular element belongs to let us take the
disjoint set which we created in the previous video
Let us perform find of six
The value at index six is minus one since it
has a negative number
The elements six itself is a parent node
So find of six will be six only now let us
perform find of seven the value it index seven is
four
Since it's a positive number it is not a parent
node and it is connected with the element four so
go to index four and check its value
The valued index four is minus six and it is
a negative number So the element four is a
parent node So we need to return four here so
find of seven will be four
So what does that mean The parent node of seven
is four that's it
So the logic of find operation is very simple
First check The value of given index If it has
a negative value that will be the parent node so
we can return this index straight away
If the index has a positive value we need to
visit every index till we find the negative value
Once we find the negative value we can return that
particular index as it is the parent node of the
given element
Now let us implement the find operation
Let us write a function named find and it will
take two arguments set array arr and Element U whose parent
needs to be found so write find of int arr
int U this find function will return the index of parent
node so write written type as int
Now let us copy the index value in some
temporary variable say x so write int X equal to
U
Next we need to check the value of given index
If it is a negative value we can return the
index straightaway
Otherwise we need to visit every index till we find
a negative value
So let us write a while loop till array of
X greater than zero and change the index till the
value becomes negative
So write While array of X greater than zero x
equal to array of X
Basically what the while loop actually does is it will
continuously update the index of parent node in variable X
until the value of array of X becomes negative
If it has a negative value the control will come
out of the while loop
So if array of X becomes a negative number the
while loop will be terminated
We will have the index of parent node in the
variable X so we can return it
So after the while loop write written X
And that's it
So that's all for this video in this video we
have learned how to implement the find operation
In the next video we will learn how to implement
the isConnected operation.